**Diego Spranger / diego.spranger@code.berlin / FS2020 / SE_25 Data Science**

**Guided data projects**

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Reflection Essay</span>

This section was meant to put what I had previously learned in the Datacamp courses: ‘Data manipulation with pandas’, ‘Cleaning data in Python’, and ‘Intermediate data visualization with Seaborn’ to test. Requiring me to apply my knowledge in a more hands-on and practical way, they gave me a larger degree of ‘freedom’ or independence as to how exactly I completed the tasks. I aimed to have these guided data projects get me used to making use of my knowledge, my notes, and online resources to full on investigations, with a particular goal in mind from start to finish. A much more detailed context of the tasks, methods, and their objectives gave it a more real-world feel where I could see myself using the same methods and techniques for an investigation of my own. This of course was the whole point of taking on these projects, preparing me as best as possible to carry out an investigation wholly on my own. An objective that I feel was met quite well by the variety and wide range of different methods and techniques required throughout the courses to solve the problems and answer their main questions.

These 3 projects were namely ‘Which debts are worth the bank’s effort?’, ‘Dr. Semmelweis and the discovery of handwashing’, and ‘A visual history of nobel prize winners’ and were chosen at random from the list of recommended guided data projects. Each of them contained in one way or another, tasks of data cleaning, data handling, and data visualization using relevant datasets. All of them in the ideal order and with checklists of the necessary tasks or rather results that were required to move on to the next ‚step’ of the project. These sections as well as the checklist items contained were all very well compartmentalized, making each task easy to understand and then complete. Their completion was of course dependent on knowledge of the necessary methods but acces to notes made it all quite simple. This at the same time served as a great example of sorts as to how it would be when looking to solve problems of my own outside of a guided project.

This task being a close follow up on the datacamp courses meant that most of the solutions found throughout were already known to me. Therefore most of the value of the guided projects was found in learning the correct order and use cases of these methods. It also meant that any guidance one could need was (as could be assumed by the title) given within the course, so no external help was requested nor necessary. Finally, I feel that taking on 3 of these guided projects was great to make the processes and methods outlined in them into a habit. I now feel confident when thinking of a problem or topic along with a dataset with relevant information, planning out an investigation, and implementing said plan to produce the results necessary to answer the question at hand. More specifically, I feel able to recognise methods and techniques applicable to data depending on their type and format. To make sure the dataset in use is ‘clean’ and optimised for use with said methods and techniques, and to interpret the results in order to solve a problem or answer a question. Successfully following the appropriate steps in the right order to cover the preprocessing and cleaning of data, recognising the importance and quality of features within a dataset, using the appropriate methods with the available data, and interpreting the results with a particular aim in mind.
