**Diego Spranger / diego.spranger@code.berlin / FS2020 / SE_25 Data Science**

**Notes on the data analysis competencies**

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Reflection Essay</span>

In this section I set out to learn the basic data analysis competencies of data handling, data exploration, and data visualization. All in order to set myself a good basis of knowledge on data science, it’s methods, and their possibilities. My interest in the topic is mainly because of its usefulness and just how much value it can add to a business that has access to relevant data. More specifically, to any business or project I wish to embark on from this point onwards. Allowing one to make better, more informed decisions all around as well as act upon them in the best ways possible. This was then achieved through 3 of the recommended Datacamp courses, namely ‘Data manipulation with pandas’, ‘Cleaning data in Python’, and ‘Intermediate data visualization with Seaborn’. All of which successfully taught me the necessary tools to effectively take on tasks from their respective topics. Not only through small lecture-like videos on said tools, but also various problems that required effective use of the methods explained beforehand.

At first I found following the courses a bit annoying because of how the introduction videos to each section were very fast, and put rather little emphasis on methods that would be absolutely necessary to solve problems in the following section. However once I got used to paying closer attention and taking notes on every little method mentioned, I was quickly able to follow through. Giving such priority to a somewhat meticulous notetaking method was largely thanks to Florencia and her recommendation of it, in turn making the whole learning process easier. Her input was very valuable to me and the experience she shared when asked about topics, such as Seaborn’s usefulness and relevance in the current landscape of data science, was of great help. Referring back to my notes, and sometimes looking for resources online that elaborated on the methods really helped me not only solve the problems at hand, but also to retain the information for future instances. The structure and continuity in terms of the base topics and themes of the courses also helped me keep track of what was going on, aiming to have each section elaborate or build upon the previous one.

All this was especially helpful because of how 90% of all the methods and syntax contained in these courses was completely new to me. Regardless of having an idea of how I could technically solve said problems my own way, pandas and seaborn to name a couple were until now, unknown. These 2 for example, being some of the most popular and widely supported tools in a data scientist’s toolbox, make me feel very well equipped to move on to more advanced topics and problems. I found that once the basic and most common python syntax, as well as the most relevant methods were clear to me, solving problems with them was actually quite straightforward. Since knowing just how much you can do with the data at hand, and exactly how to do it, makes the whole process much more fluent and dare I say ‘easy’. Even without knowing the methods’ syntax by heart, knowing they exist and what they do allow me to quickly refer back to my notes or search online for them to then implement and get the results I need to aid me in any given problem. From cleaning data and manipulating it, to descriptive statistics and data visualization, I am now able to apply all the necessary methods to appropriately carry out an investigation with modern and popular tools.
